#<blockquote><strong>The Indian Experience</strong></blockquote>
<p>The idea of <em> Free Software</em> was introduced in the form of the typesetting program TeX, developed by Donald Knuth in the 1970's. TeX was used for typesetting mathematical equations in a structured pattern. This innovative software was first brought to India by Prof. KSS Namburipad, Department of Mathematics, University of Kerala, in the 1980's. It was a one of a kind, as no other software could typeset as well as TeX. Prof. Namburipad brought it with him, without facing any legal hassle, as it was not protected by any Copyright laws. Essentially, TeX is often known as the "Grandmother of Free Software". Prof. Namburipad successfully spread awareness about the software and encouraged the students to exploit the opportunity provided by the software. One student who was greatly inspired by using TeX was, E. Krishnan. Dr. Krishnan later played an important role in setting up the Free Software Foundation, India. He was also instrumental in writing the very popular LaTeX, Primer 2. Another person who was influenced by Prof. Namburipad's enthusiasm was a small scale businessman, Mr. C v Radhakrisnan. His firm worked on typesetting student thesis. He realised that TeX held great business potential. Mr. Radhkrishnan along with his brother started using TeX for the purpose of expanding their business. They set up the company River Valley Corporation, based on the use of TeX. It was the first company in India to be set up using a Free Software.In 1996 they were introduced to the Linux software, which had similar functions like Unix. But unlike Unix which came with an exorbitant price, Linux was free.</p>
<p>Starting from this point, many paralleldevelopments were carried out, which finally led to the setting up of the Indian Unit of the Free Software Foundation.In the year 2005, the first conference on Free and Open Source Software, was organised in Kerela.</p>
