#<blockquote>Free and open source software : the journey in India</blockquote>

<p>Freedom of choice, Freedom of expression, Freedom- these concepts of have been remoulded down the ages. The Digital Age has expanded the horizon for the development of the elusive machine called the Computers. Today the way we interact with the computers is affecting and reshaping the very structure of the society. the economics and political spheres of the society is being taken by a whirlwind of changes due to the interaction of the computer language systems and the idealisms of the citizens at large.</p>

<p>Computing evolved from being a tool for mathematical problem solver to being an alter ego for the humans.A desire to invent and create had driven a bunch of youth from MIT to spend enormous amount of time "hacking" away at computer codes. in todays day and age the term <em> " hacking" </em> has acquired a negative connotation.But from the  very beginning of the history of computing it has referred to the act of modifying codes for making it more effecient- inventing and reinventing, innovating and reinnovating, a process which gave birth to the Hacker movement. For the hackers, the thirst for innovating was the driving force behind their dialogue with the computers. But they did not restrict themselves to innovating and using it for personal purpose alone. The need to make the innovation available for others use was equally strong. The Hackers believed in forming a decentralised system which would allow free access to knowledge and opportunity to create. For the hackers playing with codes is just another form of art.This is the point where the idea behind Free Software was first conceived. From the point of Conception to its birth, from the slow growth to the rapid growth it has branched into various sectors and is continuing to branch, spreading its root deeper and deeper into the foundations of the society.The "Free software sensibilities" finds its backing from the early hacker culture.</p>
<p>The term <em><strong>Free and Open Source Software</strong></em>, has been in circulation for a long time now. But its true meaning is lost to most Indian consumers. Rather, its safe to say that most Indians are unaware of the ideals that <em>Free and Open Source Software</em> stands for. The awareness of Free and Open Source Software has not found equal distribution and reach across all the states in India.Though Free Softwares have been in use in India since the 1980's, it is only in the present time, that the people are gaining more information about it.</p>
<p> Through this research work I propose to chart the journey of <em><strong> Free and Open Source Software </strong></em> in India.A lot has been written about the use of Free Software in India and its implications, but it fails to take more people into its fold. Thereason I have taken up this research is to spread more awareness among people who are not directly linked to Free Softwares. More often than not Indian consumers use Free Softwares without realising it.</p>
<p>The Research paper has been divided into eight different sections. Each Section is going to focus on specefic aspects associated with Free and Open Source Software use in India and the various organisations working for the cause of spreading awareness about Free Software in India. The research also includes a Questionnaire spread across various sections of Free Software Movement in India. The Survey dose not target the quantity but the quality of the responses </p>
<p><strong>Chapter I</strong> will give an overview of Free and Open Source Software, the ideals it stands for, the meanings and the characteristics.</p>
<p><strong>Chapter II</strong> will talk about the evolution of <em><strong> Free and Open Source Software</em></strong>. The chapter will be further subdivided to tell the evolutionary story in the world context and another subdivision talking about the evolution in the Indian context.</p>
<p><strong>Chapter III</strong> is going to focus on the role played by FOSS organisations in India. This chapter will be further subdivided into two sections to elaborate on the importance of the role of the volunteers in the FOSS movements and the limitations faced by various organisations.</p>
<p><strong>Chapter IV</strong> will speak about the ideals followed by <em>Free Software Foundations</em> and the creation and distribution of Free and Open Source Softwares.</p>
<p><strong>Chapter V</strong> proposes to highlight the<em> gender gap</em> in the world context as well as the Indian context. </p>
<p><strong>Chapter VI</strong> will talk about the role the Government plays in the development and spreading of the use Free Software across the world and specifically in India. it proposes to note down the various initiatives taken by the Indian Government to increase the use of Free Software in India.</p>
<p><strong>Chapter VII</strong> will try chalk out the direction FOSS might take in future in India.</p>
<p><strong>Chapter VIII</strong> will focus on deriving a conclusion by connecting all the preceeding chapter to give a proper understanding about FOSS to the Indian citizens at large.</p>



