#<u><strong> Made in India:</u></strong>

<p> A diverse and developing country like India has various specific requirements.In order to further develop and improve the living standards of the citizens, the spread of technology becomes important. The language in India is an important factor in the functioning of the society. A total of 22 regional languages coupled with the absence of the knowledge of the English language in the majority of the sections in India, makes spreading computer literacy a difficult task. The proprietary Operating Systems  support only world languages but does not provide any platform for the Indian language. If computer literacy has to be spread across all the sections of India, the Operating Systems need to be able to interact to every individual irrespective of language barrier. Keeping this challenge in mind, the Free Software community in India has been working on developing Operating Systems and editing platforms in regional languages.</p>
<p>For the Free Software community in India, the development of FOSS acts as a teaching and learning tool. With the available source codes, softwares can be modified to integrate regional specific requirements.Making tutorials for the better understanding of Free Software and its use is an important motivation for the FOSS community in India. Another important motivation is to help in the establishment of local industry.Availability of the Source codes makes it easier for new startups to begin without much investment.The freedom to use and modify available source code also results in more efficient functioning.</p>

